114

DE RERUM NATURA.

Lm. lv.

Nunc igitur, docui quoniam me forte leonum

Cernere per simulacra, oculos quaequomque lacessunt3

Scire licet, mentem simili ratione moveri,

Per simulacra leonum, caetera‚ quae videt aeque,

Nec minus, atque oculei3 nisi quod mage tenuia cernit.

760

Nec ratione alifi, quom somnus membra profudit,

Mens animi vigilat, nisi qu& simulacra lacessunt

Haec eadem nostros animos, quae, quom vigilamus:

Usque adeo, certe ut videamur cernere eum, quem,

Reddita vitai, jam mors, et terra, potita est.

Any orders of sensations, by being associated to-
gether a certain number of times, obtain such an in-
fluence over each other, that either of them, when
impressed alone, possesses a power of exciting the
vibratiuncles or ideas of all the rest. These associa-
tions are divided into synchronous and suecessive;
and all our simple and complex ideas are ascribed to
the influence of this principle, or habit. The sight
of one part of a large building suggests instanta-
neously the idea of the remaining parts by a syn-
chronous association of the parts ; and the sound of
the words, which begin a familiar sentence, brings to
remembrance the remaining words in their order, by
successive *associatiom

This theory is highly ingenious, and strictly phi-
losophical3 but it necessarily flows from it, that all
our apprehensions, ourjudgments, our volitions‚ and
our actions, are derived from external and mechanical
impulse; that man is, in consequence, little better
than an automaton, and scarcely to be regarded as an
accountable being. This objection to the Hartleian
hypothesis has been often urged against it, and has
met with many able and elaborate answers from its
advocates ; but none, in my opinion, that have alto-
gether removed the difficulties which seem essential
to its very constitution. There is another difficulty,
moreover, under which it labours at present, in conse-

765

quence of the diseovcryofgalvanic aura,and ofits close
connexion with the nervous system; and which, if not
fatal to its existence, renders it at least necessary
that the whole should be re-modelled, and adapted to
the anatomical facts and experiments of the day. It
is now clearly ascertained, that the nervous fibrillae
are not solid and elastic capillaments, but gals-anic
tubuli; that sensation is not propagated by vibra-
tious and vibratiuncules, but by the transmission of
an invisible fluid propellcd through the concavity of
the nervous filaments with a velocity that cannot be„
mcasured. And hence the associate system, as it
stands at present, admitting it to be philosophically
correct, is anatomically erroneous; and that with
respect to several of its fundamental and most imp'ort-
ant principles.

After such incongruities and sels-contradictions,
it should seem almost idlc to attempt any thing new :
but the mind is fond of novelty, and a different theory
of mental perception has very lately been started in
Germany, under the name of the Critical or Trans-
cendental Philosophy, an ingenious but recondite in-
vention of M. Kant of Konigsburg. Having already,
however, given a brief account of the rise, progress,
principleS, and present state of M. Kant’s hypothe-
sis, towards the close of the Appendix to the pre-
ceding Life os Lucretius, 1 shall not revert to it on

